---
layout: bookpost
title: "Buckaroo Banzai Against the World Crime League"
author: "Earl Mac Rauch"
year: 2021
tags: []
cover: books/2026/buckaroo.jpg
---

This is the worse book I've ever read, or at least the worse book in a decade.  I am a big fan of the peculiar Buckaroo Banzai movie released in 1984.  It has become a cult classic to many and even teased about a sequel in the end credits that was never made.  When I found out that the sequel came out as a book five years ago I bought a copy.  Only afterwards did I read the reviews on GoodReads that this book was a steaming turd.  

I read it to see how terrible it was and a dumpster fire it is; very flat from a character and plot point, horrible insulting dialog between characters, The Pope asking Buckaroo for help.  But the icing on the cake is that World Crime League isn't really involved in the book.  There is a World Crime League in the book but it has nothing to do with the main plot.  What seems to have happened here was that a title was choosen 40 years ago, and an attempt was made to write a book to the title.  But the author was incapable of writing an entire book on an idea, so what we have is a collage of half written books put together to cash in on the famous cult status of the movie. It's a whopping 620 pages too and could have been edited down to a fun 200 page pulp novel.  

When I originally found out about GoodReads what I thought was good about it was that I could do research and read reviews to avoid bad books.  Unfortunately, I bought this on emotion before doing my research.  Lesson learned.  The only silver lining to this is the book I'm reading after seems like a masterpiece now.  I may become gunshy now, sticking to top 100 books of all time lists for a while.

Life is to short to read bad books.  Don't read this one.